We talked earlier about
evaluating question answering.
If we have the answer to a factoid
question, we can simply evaluate it by
seeing if the factoid the system
returns is the correct factoid.
Now, summaries can't
be evaluated that way,
because we can't have a single
perfect summary for any document.
So we'll introduce a different algorithm,
called ROUGE.
ROUGE stands for
recall oriented understudy for
gisting evaluation proposed by Lin and
Hovy.
And here's the idea, it's an intrinsic
metric for evaluating summary.
We're going to ask,
is this summary good as a summary.
Not in some other extrinsic
application but just as a summary.
And it's based on a metric called BLEU or
BLEU that defined originally from machine
translation, and it's not as good.
ROUGE is not as good as
using humans to say,
did the summary answer
the user's question?
So if we can afford that,
we'll certainly hire users and
have them test to see if an answer
answers a user's question.
But ROUGE is very convenient for
testing while we're building our system,
and it works as follows.
We're given a document D.
And let's say we've got our summarizer and
it produces an automatic summary.
And this can be a query-focused summary.
So maybe we also know about
the query that the user asked.
Or even for generic summarization.
Now we have N humans produce a set of
reference summaries of this document.
Again, in query-focused summarization,
they look at the query and
write their summaries in
generic summarization.
They just write their summaries.
So we have a set of summaries, one,
two, three, four human summaries,
of our document D.
And now the system produces
another summary, call that X.
We have our automatic summary and
our four human summaries and now we just
ask what percentage of the bigrams
from these human summaries occur in X.
Obviously they won't all occur in X.
A good summary will contain
a lot of the bigrams that occur
in some of these human summaries so
by counting the percentage, we get
an intuition for what's a good summary.
And there are various versions of ROUGE,
unigram ROUGE, bigram ROUGE.
There's also other versions that
talk about length in different ways.
We'll introduce just one, ROUGE-2
bigram ROUGE, which works pretty well.
And it's just asking out of all
the bigrams, in the all sentences,
in all the reference summaries,
take the count of those bigrams.
And notice that out of all those bigrams,
look at again,
in each sentence in the summary for
each bigram asks,
what's it's minimum count
in the summary produced
by our system and the human summary?
So it's asking, how many bigrams
occurred both in our system and
in the human summary?
So that will give us, out of all bigrams,
how many occurred both in the summary and
in the human references?
Let's look at an example.
Here I've made up three human
summaries and a system summary.
So here's our human three summaries and
our system answer to a question.
Let's compute ROUGE.
So the numerator, we want to know how
many bigrams that occurred in these human
summaries, how many of those bigrams
also occur in our system answer?
We can walk through, well water spinach,
that's in our answer, here it is here.
And spinach is and is a,
and in this summary,
water spinach and spinach is and is a.
And in this third summary again,
But also commonly eaten and
leaf vegetable and of Asia.
So if we add all that together,
we have three from this first summary.
And three from the second summary and
six from the third.
And how many total bigrams
are there in the human summary?
Well, you can count them yourself.
There's ten in the first example up here,
nine in here, nine in here.
So we have 3 + 3 + 6 over 10 + 9 + 9 or
a ROUGE score of 0.43.
So we've introduced ROUGE,
an algorithm for evaluating summaries,
whether they're generic or query-focused,
by looking at how many of the bigrams or
engrams in general in a human summary
occur in our machine generated summary.
And a better summary is one that
overlaps more with the human summary.
Now ROUGE doesn't work as well as having
humans actually answer the question.
Did this answer provide
the information the user asked for?
That can be very expensive, and so
ROUGE can provide the fast to run and
convenient, intrinsic metric that
we can use to test our systems.
And then at the end, we can use humans
to see how well they really did.